Q: OMFG! Help me, my HP/Armor, Dodge/Death-Resist/ArmorAb values, & Ammo Counters on the full-screen HUD are blown up and look nothing like advertised! Y u do dis? Dis sucks! >:E
A: *sighs* Sorry about that folks. Appearantly I forgot that I use a different "hud_scale" value than most mods do [this is a console-typed command]. Most people will have it set to 1 [or TRUE]. DV-DS's HUD currently relies on it being 0 [or FALSE]. Set it to 0 and it should look right, but be warned when you exit to change it back to 1 if you're gonna play some other mods seeing as that the HUDs in THOSE wads will probably look funky if you don't. >.>
A2: Gonna see if I can change that later. I honestly forgot about this being a thing because I've had "hud_scale" set to 0/FALSE for such a long time I forgot about it until recently. :\


Q: Why do I see "??? (puke 806 [0-9])" a bunch of times on the right side of my screen? Such clutter, much dumb. >:(
A: The way ZDoom decides to show unbound commands with printed-messages is weird, hence it shows the script commands (or things like "+use" if the USE key is unbound and the bind for it is displayed on screen for example) that the binds execute when they're not bound. To change this, just bind keys to the "(Assign/Cast) QuickSpell [1-10]" in the "Customize Controls" menu [the commands are near the bottom of the controls], and they'll actually show the "KEY" being used instead of the command. I would personally perfer the 0-9 keys on the numpad if available, but that's up to you to decide. For more info on how to quickspell, refer to the proper text file about it. :P
A2: Also, there will be a similar issue when you start seeing that you have Aeon Points [usually by default you won't see them until you reach level 32, but the special DV-DS options can change it to an earlier level or to always see and use Aeon Points], where it'll tell you the keys to use to cycle up/down stats to put them into, and to actually use them. The same weird thing applies. And of course, there's commands for this in the "Customize Controls" menu. I use B, N and M myself, but you don't have to, whatever you feel best suits you. :P


Q: All these binds! You expect me to bind all these?! >:E
A: YES. <.< Git gud. But seriously, I know of plenty of mods that have at least this many key bindings, IF NOT MORE. It will NOT kill you to take 30-60 seconds of your time to set them all. >.> Again, for QuickSpell use [probably where most of the binds are], just use the Keypad numbers if you can't think of anything else. Or not, it's your choice, but you at least need to know how to use spells to survive. You probably won't last too long without 'em, and I'm pretty strongly confident even very good players aren't going to be able to get through an entire megawad without using any spells due to the way difficulties affect things and how monsters gradually become stronger on each subsequent map. :\


Q: Holy crap, too many custom-mod-options man! @_@
A: Eh sorry, but I'd rather have the options than be too rigid. I'm just a very detailed and technicial kind of coder with what I do know, and people have complained about certain things that eventually got made into options. You don't have to mess with any of them, they're just there if you want to. :o


Q: No Brutal Doom Support? >:O
A: Sorry, no. :\ Besides the general contreversy surrounding SgtMarkIV and all that junk, Brutal Doom only gave me entertainment for a very short time. I tend to not care much about the level of gore in mods one way or another asethically [although in FPS/performance, I'm more against it to leaving unnecessary stuff behind to gradually bog down the game]. I admit this in it's favor, fatalities were cool both ways between monsters and the player, but I also didn't like some of the mechanics around how fatalities can make the performer of them invulnerable and all that as well. Besides, in canon, none of the three heroes are brutal sociopaths, especially not sweet little Flora, so seeing her of all people so brutally kill demons in such over-the-top fashions, as much as they want her blood, just doesn't make sense to me. :P
A2: Also, the only thing that explodes in a shower of gore in DV-DS is the Hades Overlord, and only because that's a pre-coded thing that comes in its DECORATE. :P


Q: Oh gods the enemies randomize?! More mutators?! >_>
A: Yes, but it's limited based on SPECIES. Imps for example never turn into Hell Knights, only Dark Imps. Zombies are a little more diverse due to there only being three initial types though, and me wanting to cover pretty much any Doom-style weapon in the game [so yes, Chaingun Commandos indeed sometimes become BFG Commandos at map load @_@]. Some kinds of monsters have do have a high range of different beings they can 'evolve' into. Cacodemons have four possible evolutions, and Hell Nobles can have 4-5.
A2: You can turn monster evolutions off in the special options, although it only applies to map-load. If you turn it off in an already-loaded map, those enemies will stay evolved for the rest of the current map.


Q: WHY DO THE ZOMBIES HAVE [insert high-powered weapon here]S?!
A: Diversity of weapons to wield against you. To be more specfic, Zombieman can become varients with Rocket Launchers, Plasma Rifles, Repeater Cannons, or the Karasawa High-Density Rifle. Shotgun Guys can become Super Shotgun Guys, and Chaingun Commandos can become BFG Commandos at map load, but randomly. For people playing as Deggaris or Illucia, this gives them a chance to get the more powerful weapons earlier, as any of these monsters [except the Zombieman] will ALWAYS drop at least one copy of their weapon, on rare occasions a second. For Zombiemen, they can randomly drop another Pistol to allow Akimbo Pistols.
A2: Also, there's an option for [Super] Shotgunners and their pellet-spread amounts. By default, it's turned to "Doomspell", meaning their weapons shoot the same # of pellets as the original PLAYER'S version [7 for normal, 20 for Super], but you can put it back to "Classic" for the original 3/7 pellet spreads.


Q: STEALTH [insert terrifying enemy type]S!?!? F' THIS I'M OUT!
A: Yeah, I know people loathe stealth monsters, and I've even become tired of the traditional ZDoom-style versions by the time I'm writing this. I'm probably going to revamp them to be more like Spectres in that they're just REALLY HARD to see if you don't have an eagle's eye. However there is an option to turn off Stealth enemies altogether [although it only works at map-load, so turning it off after a map starts won't de-stealth any enemies who've already been stealth'd].
A2: The original reason I used ZDoom-Style stealth enemies as a random form of obstacle is because of Hell's vendetta against mankind in-canon: Hell and it's ruler are tired of having any remote sembalence of fairness with the player characters, so it's trying to pull out as many stops as possible. Still, I CAN understand people's hate of Stealth monsters, and even I've gotten fed up with 100%-invisible stealth monsters, so they are going to be overhauled, but they're still gonna have some element of "hard to see unless you're paying very close attention", so that will be addressed soon.


Q: OMFG you ripped off DemonSteele/GMOTA/TrailBlazer/DoomRPG/some-other-gameplay-mod of the recent years!! Evulz! >:E
A: Not my intention. DV-DS and DemonSteele were actually both likely started in the same years [2009-2010] in very seperate paths, and GMOTA started much more recently, as did TrailBlazer, but DV-DS obviously has RPG elements the above three mentioned and most other mods don't [well DoomRPG has them, but they're employed very differently from DV-DS], not to mention the Sceptre [Flora's signature weapon] and Kharon [Hae-lin's signature weapon], while both melee oriented, promote different play styles. Kharon is more about consistant and fast strikes, button-combination attacks using soul energy, and cutting down projectiles mid-flight or using the scabbard to absorb projectiles to soul energy. The Sceptre, while it can cut down/deflect projectiles by swinging at them, is more employed to be both defensive and offensive, but initially better defensively, as the shield alt-fire has more coverage and shielding for Flora than Kharon's slashes for Hae-lin, while the sceptre swings slower though with more of a punch [and yes, it's slowish at first FOR A REASON, despite some complaints (that and fixed-point tics aren't doable in DECORATE states), as if a 275-to-325-damage-per-hit weapon could swing as fast as Kharon (30-90 damage per hit) out of the gate, it would make the Sceptre way too overpowered]. Also, unlike Hae-lin [and more like Lord Blazkowich in GMOTA], the sceptre actually consumes stamina to use in any form [similar to Lord Blazkowich's Zarach], and it isn't a perfect defense on all sides.
A2: You also don't start off uber-strong, though you certain can become so to a degree over the course of the game. The other mods mentioned keep you at an overall consistant range of possible strength, even if by the standards of playing classic Doom 1 or Doom 2's maps, overpowered, but DV-DS can start off hard and despite strength changes, stay pretty hard on higher difficulties. Additionally unlike GMOTA and Trailblazer, you don't carry inventory items at all in DV-DS [and in DemonSteele the only 'inventory item' is for activating the Iron Maiden mode].